# The Announcement about the Legality of Ballance on Steam

**TL;DR**  
**Do NOT purchase Ballance on Steam, at least now. Please wait the response of Ziggurat or original Ballance developer team.**

Recently, we all notice the update of Ballance page on Steam according to the history provided by SteamDB and it seems that Ziggurat now actively preparing the release of Ballance on Steam. But considering now grasped clues, the legality of Steam Ballance may not be seen as concreted. Please let me state our announcement about Ziggurat published Ballance on Steam.

First, Ballance community definitely is eager to have a robust and powerful platform to help us organize the whole game community because currently Ballance community still rely on Discord as its only communication method. The communication in Discord eventually is limited in platform and the moderator of Ballance community need pay extra energy and money to manage user generated content.
A well-known and conspicuous platform will attract more former Ballance players and newbie players. Further more, platform like Steam also can provide Workshop like functions to help community manage user generated content, like various custom maps and BML mods. People can access these easier and more convenient. Community also do not need to spend any more money to rent server or website to host these essential resources. Map & mod creator also can publish their work on platform quickly without any pain or worry about whether others can reach their work.

It seems that the publishing of Ballance on Steam would be a nice things, right? However, there is a premise that the publishing on Steam by Ziggurat is rational and legitimate. If we offered our efforts to an untrusted, unauthorized release of Ballance and this release finally was got DMCA, our works will be entirely vain. We must make sure that all of our works and decisions are built on a solid, trustable source. Thus we can focus on flourishing our community, rather than perpetual worry about the disappearance of our works.

According to the result of March Meeting among Chris (community member), Alith (community member) and Ulrich Weinberg (Ballance IP host), we obviously know that the original Ballance developer team do not give any authority to Ziggurat and the Ulrich Weinberg even don't know Ziggurat before the meeting. In other words, Ziggurat do not have any license or charter to prove the legality of its Ballance release, at least now.

However, other community members provide more information about Ziggurat. A community member point out that it is Atari that the CEO of Ziggurat come from, which published Ballance 19 years ago. So the legality of Ziggurat release is confirmed and do not need any challenges. He also state that he has contacted with other developers of Ballance (Ulrich Weinberg not included) and some of them said they are not sure about the owner of game IP, thus Atari may actually have game IP and can distribute it freely.

At March Meeting, Ulrich Weinberg also said he can not do anything for a "Coming Soon" game on Steam but he will act when the release on Steam coming out. With possible approaching of Ziggurat Ballance release, Chris sent a email to Ulrich Weinberg about 1 month ago. But the email got no response, even the ping to Ulrich Weinberg on Discord platform. This veil the real attitude of original Ballance develop team. Some members in community now guess Ziggurat and Ulrich Weinberg already have had a meeting and gotten a consensus. They just didn't tell us.
We highly focus on this, because it will affect our following attitude about Ballance on Steam. For a plain sake of protecting copyright, we surely want drop any profitable illegal release of Ballance down, especially one which the original Ballance team can not gain any dollars from. If Ballance team have done with some contracts with Ziggurat, it would be better to let community know, otherwise we should take the opinion that no advertising, no purchasing, and no supporting to Ziggurat Ballance.

Perhaps someone may argue with me about that you just want pull Ziggurat down and let all players use the distribution in your server. It is false. Just I stated above, I want a legal Ballance on Steam better than anyone, not only as a Ballance childhood player, but also as the moderator of Ballance community. Our attitude to Ziggurat Ballance now still is pendulum. Everything will be clear when the react of Ziggurat or Ballance team coming out. I hope, Ziggurat, Ballance team, or any person who know the truth, tell us, thus we can have a clear viewpoint to the future of Ballance.
**All in all, it is not suggested to buy Ballance on Steam now according to the evidences we grasped now. Please calm down and wait the response of Ziggurat or original Ballance developer team.**

